The need to balance
exploration and
exploitation is one of
the defining characteristics of
the sequential
decision-making problem.
We've talked about
several simple ways to promote
exploration in bandits
and tabular
reinforcement learning.
What about function
approximation?
Is there anything special
about exploration there?
Today we'll find out.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to describe
how optimistic initial values and
Epsilon greedy can be used
with function approximation.
Let's do a brief refresher
on how we use
optimistic initial values
in the tabular setting.
We initialize our values to be
greater than the true values.
This is like the agent imagining
that it can get more reward by
taking that action than it
actually can in reality.
Typically, initializing
the value function this way
causes the agent
to systematically
explore the state action space.
As the agents values
become more accurate,
they are impacted less and
less by this initialization.
This is straightforward
to implement in
a tabular setting
where the update to
each state action pair is
independent of all the
other state action pairs.
In function approximation,
optimistic initial
values corresponds to
initializing
the weights such that
the resulting values
are optimistic.
In some cases this is
straightforward, for example,
when the features are binary,
we simply initialize
each weight to
be the largest possible return.
Then, as long as each state
has at least one feature active,
the value will be optimistic
and likely overly so.
In many cases however,
it is difficult to
initialize optimistically.
For example, in a neural network
the relationship
between the final values and
the features can be
quite complicated.
Imagine a network composed of
tanh activation functions.
The network could
output negative values
even with positive
initial weights.
But this isn't the whole story.
Depending on how
our features generalize,
optimistic initial values may
not result in the same kind of
systematic exploration we
see in the tabular case.
Consider an extreme example,
where we have only one feature
that is always one.
We can initialize
optimistically but
every update will change
the value for all states.
This means that before some
states are even visited,
the value will already
have decreased
such that it is no
longer optimistic.
To facilitate
systematic exploration,
changes to the value function
need to be more localized.
For example, function
approximation with
tile coding can produce
such localized updates.
Neural networks and also
provide local updates,
but neural networks may also
generalize aggressively.
In practice without
special consideration,
a neural network will lose
his optimism relatively quickly.
Epsilon greedy is generally
applicable and easy to
use even in cases with non-linear
function approximation.
The only thing
Epsilon greedy needs
are the action value estimates,
independent of how they are
initialized or approximated.
However, Epsilon greedy is not
a directed exploration method.
It relies on
randomness to discover
better actions near states
followed by the current policy.
It is therefore not
as systematic as
exploration methods
that rely on optimism.
Improving exploration in
the function approximation
setting remains
an open research question.
So in this course,
we'll stick with
this simple strategy.
In this video, we
talked about how there
are many subtleties
when combining
optimistic initial values and
function approximation and how
Epsilon greedy can
be combined with
any function approximation.
See you next time.